# Scheduling issue creation

You can use GitHub Actions to create an issue on a regular basis for things like daily meetings or quarterly reviews.

## Introduction

This tutorial demonstrates how to use the [`imjohnbo/issue-bot` action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/issue-bot-action) to create an issue on a regular basis. For example, you can create an issue each week to use as the agenda for a team meeting.

In the tutorial, you will first make a workflow file that uses the [`imjohnbo/issue-bot` action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/issue-bot-action). Then, you will customize the workflow to suit your needs.

## Creating the workflow

1. Choose a repository where you want to apply this project management workflow. You can use an existing repository that you have write access to, or you can create a new repository. For more information about creating a repository, see "[AUTOTITLE](/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-new-repository)."
1. In your repository, create a file called `.github/workflows/YOUR_WORKFLOW.yml`, replacing `YOUR_WORKFLOW` with a name of your choice. This is a workflow file. For more information about creating new files on GitHub, see "[AUTOTITLE](/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/creating-new-files)."
1. Copy the following YAML contents into your workflow file.

    ```yaml copy
    # This workflow uses actions that are not certified by GitHub.
    # They are provided by a third-party and are governed by
    # separate terms of service, privacy policy, and support
    # documentation.

    # GitHub recommends pinning actions to a commit SHA.
    # To get a newer version, you will need to update the SHA.
    # You can also reference a tag or branch, but the action may change without warning.

    name: Weekly Team Sync
    on:
      schedule:
        - cron: 20 07 * * 1

    jobs:
      create_issue:
        name: Create team sync issue
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        permissions:
          issues: write
        steps:
          - name: Create team sync issue
            uses: imjohnbo/issue-bot@3d96848fb5e9a4a473bb81ae62b4b4866a56e93a
            with:
              assignees: "monalisa, doctocat, hubot"
              labels: "weekly sync, docs-team"
              title: "Team sync"
              body: |
                ### Agenda

                - [ ] Start the recording
                - [ ] Check-ins
                - [ ] Discussion points
                - [ ] Post the recording

                ### Discussion Points
                Add things to discuss below

                - [Work this week](https://github.com/orgs/github/projects/3)
              pinned: false
              close-previous: false
            env:
              GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
    ```

1. Customize the parameters in your workflow file:
   - Change the value for `on.schedule` to dictate when you want this workflow to run. In the example above, the workflow will run every Monday at 7:20 UTC. For more information about scheduled workflows, see "[AUTOTITLE](/actions/using-workflows/events-that-trigger-workflows#scheduled-events)."
   - Change the value for `assignees` to the list of GitHub usernames that you want to assign to the issue.
   - Change the value for `labels` to the list of labels that you want to apply to the issue.
   - Change the value for `title` to the title that you want the issue to have.
   - Change the value for `body` to the text that you want in the issue body. The `|` character allows you to use a multi-line value for this parameter.
   - If you want to pin this issue in your repository, set `pinned` to `true`. For more information about pinned issues, see "[AUTOTITLE](/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/pinning-an-issue-to-your-repository)."
   - If you want to close the previous issue generated by this workflow each time a new issue is created, set `close-previous` to `true`. The workflow will close the most recent issue that has the labels defined in the `labels` field. To avoid closing the wrong issue, use a unique label or combination of labels.
1. Commit your workflow file to the default branch of your repository. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/creating-new-files)."

## Expected results

Based on the `schedule` parameter (for example, every Monday at 7:20 UTC), your workflow will create a new issue with the assignees, labels, title, and body that you specified. If you set `pinned` to `true`, the workflow will pin the issue to your repository. If you set `close-previous` to true, the workflow will close the most recent issue with matching labels.

<div class="ghd-spotlight ghd-spotlight-note border rounded-1 my-3 p-3 f5 color-border-accent-emphasis color-bg-accent">

Note: The `schedule` event can be delayed during periods of high loads of GitHub Actions workflow runs. High load times include the start of every hour. If the load is sufficiently high enough, some queued jobs may be dropped. To decrease the chance of delay, schedule your workflow to run at a different time of the hour.

</div>

You can view the history of your workflow runs to see this workflow run periodically. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/actions/monitoring-and-troubleshooting-workflows/viewing-workflow-run-history)."

## Next steps

- To learn more about additional things you can do with the `imjohnbo/issue-bot` action, like rotating assignees or using an issue template, see the [`imjohnbo/issue-bot` action documentation](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/issue-bot-action).
- [Search GitHub](https://github.com/search?q=%22uses%3A+imjohnbo%2Fissue-bot%22&type=code) for examples of workflows using this action.
